Merge `develop` into `feature/client-side-stats` (#3121)
DataDog/dd-sdk-ios: DatadogLogs/LOGS_FEATURE.md

---

> last_updated: 2026-06-19
> sdk_version: 3.12.0

Reviewer: Stale frontmatter — this merge updates RUM docs to `3.14.0` / `2026-08-04`, but Logs still shows `3.12.0` / `2026-06-19`.

```suggestion
last_updated: 2026-08-04
sdk_version: 3.14.0
```

4. Check if `eventMapper` is returning `nil` for those events.

### "Some log levels not appearing"
1. `remoteLogThreshold` filters out levels below the configured minimum; only levels ≥ threshold are sent remotely.
2. Console output via `consoleLogFormat` is not affected by `remoteLogThreshold` — it always prints all levels.

### "Logs not linked to RUM session"
1. Verify `RUM.enable()` is called and a RUM session is active.
2. Verify the RUM session is sampled in — sampled-out sessions do not add RUM linkage.
3. Confirm `bundleWithRumEnabled: true` (default) on the logger.

### "Logs not linked to a trace span"
1. Verify `Trace.enable()` is called and an active span exists when logging.
2. Confirm `bundleWithTraceEnabled: true` (default) on the logger.

### "Logger.create() returns a no-op logger"
Returned when `Datadog.initialize()` was not called or `Logs.enable()` was not called. Check the console for `ProgrammerError` messages via `consolePrint`.

## Feature Interactions

- **RUM**: When `bundleWithRumEnabled` is `true` and the current RUM session is sampled in, logs are enriched with the current RUM view / session / action IDs for correlation in Datadog.

> - **Trace**: When `bundleWithTraceEnabled` is `true` and an active span is present (via `Tracer.shared()` or `OTelTracerProvider`), logs are enriched with `dd.trace_id` and `dd.span_id`. Span logs written via `OTSpan.log(...)` also flow through the Logs feature — if Logs is not enabled, those span logs are dropped.

Reviewer: Configuration Categories notes that OTel spans activated through `withActiveSpan` do not propagate to log bundling, but this sentence doesn't distinguish which activation paths bundle.

```suggestion
- **Trace**: When `bundleWithTraceEnabled` is `true` and an active Datadog span is present (through `Tracer.shared()`), logs are enriched with `dd.trace_id` and `dd.span_id`. OTel spans activated through `withActiveSpan` do not bundle. Span logs written through `OTSpan.log(...)` also flow through the Logs feature — if Logs is not enabled, those span logs are dropped.
```
